[Music]
Hexis Force is no doubt one of the most
overlooked RPGs on the PSP and
introduces players to the world of Burge
that's divided into both a light and
dark side that gives you two separate
campaigns to make your way through.
You've got Cecilia and Levant that offer
up unique perspectives of the world and
of course a nice amount of replayability
as both are completely different from
one another. Despite the somewhat
predictable aim of both stories that see
a battle between creation and
destruction in a world torn apart, the
game manages to pack some truly
interesting twists and great writing
that help flesh out the events that
transpire as well as several of the
characters you'll be meeting along the
way. When it comes to gameplay, Hexis
Force offers a good old turn-based
setup. But what makes it a bit different
is that there's no traditional leveling
in the game and instead your progression
is tied to your weapons that can be
upgraded through the use of force points
that are rewarded at the end of each
battle. There's no shops in the game
either, so everything from items to
armor and accessories must all be gained
from fallen enemies or crafted through
the use of your force points, which at
first may seem like a bit of a stupid
idea. But as the game unfolds, you'll
realize you won't need much anyway and
can instead focus on building a specific
set of weapons and equipment right up to
the end. A single campaign can be
completed in about 20 to 25 hours. And
as I mentioned earlier, there's plenty
of motivation to play the second
campaign after completing the first
because the two protagonists live in
different nations and have distinct
goals to complete. So if you never got
round to it when it first released,
there's never been a better time than
now to give it a go for yourself.
[Music]
Atlas have always been one of the
leading companies when it comes to RPGs
and throughout their long history have
been responsible for some of the most
incredible adventures. But of course,
some of them would fall through the
cracks and Jewel Summoner was one of
them. The story centers on a young man
known as Vice, who unfortunately had to
watch as his mother was killed by a
monster, leaving him alone with the only
thing left of her being a jewel which
contains a dark monster. From that day
on, he vowed to take revenge and
traveled the land, going from town to
town in the hopes of tracking the
monster down and would eventually end up
in a school known as the order that seek
to help those willing to become jewel
summoners. The setup is a lot like
Pokémon with you gaining different
jewels throughout the game that
correspond with a different element. As
you fight monsters in battle, you can
weaken them and use the jewel that is
the same element of the monster to catch
it and slowly build your team. As you
would guess, each of these monsters come
along with their own set of skills that
make choosing the right one for the task
at hand vital to coming out on top. And
when you're ready to experiment, you can
actually fuse your monsters with special
stones, which can give them new moves,
open up a fifth ability slot, or in rare
occasions, evolve your monster into an
entirely different form. With over 100
of them to collect, there's a lot to
contend with, which really helps amp up
the replay value. But the game isn't
without its flaws. There's not that much
in terms of challenge and the dungeons
can be a bit repetitive. But that aside,
Dual Summoner is still a solid RPG, and
fans of Pokemon or the genre in general
will still find plenty here to love.
[Music]
Final Fantasy 4 has long been celebrated
as one of the best entries in the
long-running franchise, and over the
years, it's seen its fair share of ports
and different versions. But for its 20th
anniversary, it was re-released along
with its WiiWare exclusive sequel that
finally brought all of the improvements
and extra content into one package. As a
Dark Knight known as Cecil, you're sent
on a mission by the king to gather as
many magic crystals throughout the
world. And when you begin to doubt your
job's morality and question the king on
it, it sets off a series of events that
lead Cecil on a quest to meet new
allies, learn his origins, and of
course, save the world. As with many
RPGs of the era, it's mainly split into
two separate styles of play. You'll get
to explore the vast world and visit a
whole host of different locations from
cozy towns to forests, caves, and
deserts, which all bring their own
distinct style to the forefront. You've
then, of course, got the turn-based
battles, which largely remain unchanged
with you having a wealth of options when
it comes to dealing with monsters.
You've got up to five party members in
battle at one time, which affords the
game a deeper mar strategy, allowing you
to take advantage of each member's
unique role and capitalize on the
abilities that they wield. Progression
is also a major highlight for each of
your characters, and it's really fun to
unlock their advanced skills and master
their job with a healthy selection of
them being available like the black or
white mage, as well as unique roles like
the ninja or paladin. Overall, the
complete collection boasts an incredible
amount of gameplay and bonus content
that any fan of Final Fantasy 4 will
want to enjoy. And for newcomers, it's
the perfect way to experience the
timeless classic. So, if you can find it
for a decent price, it's well worth
picking up.
Seventh Dragon 2020 is an RPG that's set
far into the future, where monsters have
descended upon the earth and humanity is
on the brink of collapse. It's up to you
and your band of heroes to travel
through time and collect several items
that have the power to stop the birth of
a final deadly dragon with the power to
destroy the world once and for all. As
for the game's main draw, combat and
exploration, the first word that comes
to mind is addictive. With up to eight
character classes to choose from and a
number of different skills to learn for
each, there's plenty of variety to keep
you busy. And you'll get to create your
party from scratch. And there's a nice
amount of customization available to
tailor them to your liking. With even
more options becoming available the
further you make it into the game. May
that be weapons, armor, or cosmetic
choices. The game constantly drip feeds
new items and ways to counteract
enemies. Combat is at the core of the
experience. With a turn-based system in
place that sees you building an offense
around various skills that can
drastically increase your damage output.
On top of this, the number and effects
of buffs and debuff skills among classes
open up even more doors for several
abilities and will help increase the
effectiveness of others used by your
party members. In short, there's a hell
of a lot of strategy involved in each
fight and getting to grips with the
various systems that comprise the game
may seem daunting at first, but after
some time, you'll slowly begin to
realize what works and what doesn't
against certain enemy types. For PSP
players, Seventh Dragon 2020 is yet
another excellent RPG. Even though it
doesn't have the polished ideas and
well-rounded mechanics of the greatest
in the genre, it still manages to have a
unique personality and strong enough
gameplay that makes it easy to
recommend.
So, the woven web of a century was the
last entry in the series that up until
now was only available in Japan. Thanks
to the endless efforts of the community,
it's now fully available for
non-Japanese speakers to enjoy. And it's
by far one of the best entries in the
franchise that's unfortunately still
stuck on the PSP. The story takes place
in a world where terrifying creatures
known as the Terra Farmer attack it once
every hundred years. Only the powerful
empire's unifying power appears capable
of protecting the people, although some
are skeptical of their motives after
their prior involvement in a massacre of
a town. This is where the player comes
in and takes up the fight as the aptly
named hero who's joined a band of
like-minded individuals who seek to turn
the tide of the battle and ultimately
confront the empire's evil deeds as
well. Much like previous entries in the
series, the battles take the form of a
turn-based system and allow you to carry
out a huge range of attacks and spells
that are all tied to each individual
character. Along the way, you'll come
into contact with a range of people who
will eventually join your cause. And
this is where the woven web of a century
truly excels. Each character has their
own specific traits that they bring to
your party. From heavy hitters to the
more conserved like archers, there's
plenty of choice when it comes to
decimating the enemy. Of course, the
formation of your party on the
battlefield also has a part to play with
you being able to choose which row you
would like your characters to occupy.
And if you don't take this aspect into
consideration, it's easy to find
yourself at the loss. Strategically,
placing your fighters is the easiest way
to give yourself the advantage. As a
huge fan of the series, it was a
pleasure to finally be able to play this
somewhat forgotten entry in the
franchise. So, if you've never heard of
it or are simply hoping to get some news
coding action, then Woven Web is one
game you don't want to miss.
Luna Silverstar Harmony is the third
remake of a game that originally
released for Sega's ill- fated add-on,
the Sega CD. Unlike remake on the
PlayStation, the PSP version feels a lot
more true to the original vision and
manages to capture the essence of fun
and simplicity that made the game so
special to begin with. It all centers
around a young boy known as Alex, who
resides in the peaceful village of Burke
with him growing up with the ambition to
go on an adventure and see the world.
And that chance comes sooner than he
expects, as what starts out as a simple
treasure hunt soon turns into something
much bigger, which ultimately forces him
to become the hero he's always dreamed
of. in order to save the kingdom and the
soul of the woman he loves. To be fair,
the story line isn't nothing you
wouldn't have seen before, but what
makes it land so well is the
relationships between the characters
that are executed extremely well and
will make you end up caring about their
motivations as you work towards the end.
As with many of its kind, much of the
game is spent fighting monsters, and
there's a fair amount of grinding
involved as well. But the battle system
is really engaging and never feels like
a chore. You've got many options when it
comes to confronting the enemy with a
wide array of attacks and magic that
only increase as you move forward and
open up even more ways to tackle one of
the many threats throughout the game.
When it comes down to it, Silverstar
Harmony feels like the perfect jumping
on point for anyone looking to get into
old school RPGs. It's not hard without
being too easy, and it tells a simple
but effective story, allowing players of
all ages to enjoy it. So, if you can
track it down or are looking for
something to emulate, you won't regret
it.
[Music]
The Legend of Heroes is one of the
longest running RPG series with its
roots reaching all the way back to the
days of the NECPC. With trails in the
sky focusing on Estelle and Joshua as
they train to become a part of a guild
who helps the common man and aids the
kingdom in times of need, following in
their father's footsteps, you've got to
guide them across the continent and
visit five branches of the guild in
order to advance from their junior rank.
And that's really the story in a
nutshell. Of course, there's a lot that
happens along the way with the cast of
characters being a huge standout which
bring their own distinct personalities
to the table, and thankfully the
dialogue between them truly shines,
allowing the band of heroes to form
meaningful bonds throughout the story.
When it comes to combat, you've got a
few different choices available with
every decision you make affecting the
turn order or at bar that's displayed on
the left side of the screen. What makes
it even more interesting is that there's
also a separate column that displays a
random set of bonuses that will be given
to whoever's turn it is. From critical
strikes to recovering HP, they can
really come in handy and add a bit more
depth to the traditional turn-based
strategy. Of course, you've got your
usual physical attacks of magic to
contend with, as well as arts that are
beholden to the amount of energy points
that you have on hand. These provide the
greatest range of attacks from simple
buffs to healing spells and elemental
abilities which can all be cast on a
single character or entire group making
them essential to overcoming the many
threats throughout the adventure. If
you're into RPGs and have slept on the
legacy of this series, this is your time
to start playing some of the best games
you never knew you needed.
[Music]
Riviera was originally released for the
Game Boy Advance and Wonders Swan, but
none of those versions come close to the
PSP release, which ended up being the
best way to experience the game. Being a
remake, it benefits from all sorts of
new features, such as redrawn cutscenes,
as well as new music and voice acting
that propelled the adventure to new
heights. It sees you taking up the role
of a young man known as Ian, who must
destroy an ancient evil that was sealed
away in order to save the world. Sure,
on the surface it sounds just like any
other cliche tale, but this is where
each and every character you'll meet
along the journey comes into play. Their
distinct personalities add so much to
the events that transpire and succeed in
creating a believable, but more
importantly, intriguing world. Now,
exploring isn't handled in the typical
way, and you're not free to roam around
to pick up quests or talk to NPCs with
it instead being handled by a look and
move mode. Whilst moving, you simply
decide which direction you would like
your party to head in. And whilst
looking, the game will pick out certain
objects and characters that can be
interacted with. This streamlined
approach carries over to the combat as
well and sees you choosing three party
members and their equipment before each
fight, where you've got to put them into
a formation and carry out your attacks.
Each weapon you can choose from is used
differently by each character, so
experimenting with their loadout carries
a lot of weight. And as you land your
hits and over limit meter will grow,
allowing you to perform devastating
abilities that can flip the tide of a
fight in the blink of an eye. With all
of the extra content and new features,
the PSP version of Riviera is truly the
best way to enjoy the game.
Valkyrie Profile is anything but a
traditional RPG with most of the game
taking the form of a 2D platformer and
seamlessly blending it with chaotic
turn-based battles with it standing out
as one of the greatest games in the
PSP's library. It tells the story of
Lenith, a Valkyrie who's summoned by the
god of Valhalla, who informs her that
Ragnarok is fastly approaching and that
she's got to descend to the earth and
collect souls that can help in the fight
and train them for the upcoming war. The
story deals very heavily with death and
the things we have left unfulfilled or
unfinished in our lives. And before
Lenith recruits one of these souls,
you're introduced to them and learn
about their tragic events leading up to
their deaths. To be honest, some of them
are absolutely tragic, which will no
doubt lead you to becoming emotionally
attached to your party members
throughout the game in a way that few
RPGs do. Now, in terms of gameplay,
you'll fly around as Lenif and enter one
of many different dungeons that take the
form of a 2D sidescroller where you'll
come into contact with many different
enemies, and this is where the combat
comes into play. The battle system
itself is truly unique with both Len and
your souls being assigned to one of the
face buttons that you simply have to
press in order for them to attack. The
main idea behind it is to form combos.
And since some characters are faster or
slower than others, you've got to
strategically decide in what order they
should attack to deal out the maximum
amount of damage possible. Valkyrie
Profile is for sure one of the most
creative RPGs that has ever been made.
From its touching story to its
incredible gameplay and unique
mechanics, it's something that just
shouldn't be missed.
As longtime viewers of the channel will
know, the Persona games are some of my
favorite RPGs of all time. So, after
playing Reload on the PS5, I decided to
go back to the PSP version to see how it
held up. All of these years later, it's
still just as enjoyable, and the story
is for sure one of the best aspects of
the game. That sees you taking control
of a high school student who's recruited
into an organization named SE, who
investigates a mysterious phenomenon
known as the Midnight Hour, where
shadows seemingly come to life and roam
the world at night. Much like the games
before it, it all plays out in a
sequence of days where you're free to
interact with one of the many characters
that make up the cast and form social
links which are intricately tied into
the game's mechanics. Apart from these
links, you can also build your stats by
answering questions correctly at school,
taken on a part-time job or eating at
the local restaurants, which again all
affect your proficiency in the world,
most notably during battle. Even though
it's a turn-based setup, there's plenty
of intricacies that make each encounter
all the more engaging. From the weakness
system to team-based attacks that add a
lot of flare to the back and forth
between yourself and the enemies and of
course the personas themselves. Nearly
every monster you come across can be
recruited into your ranks and used to
fight alongside your party. The best
thing about it is that they can be mixed
together to create entirely new personas
that come along with unique properties
and uses in battle as well. So, if
you're like me and have always been a
fan of the series, then the PSP version
of Persona 3 is still well worth
playing. Well, that does it for another
video. Keep an eye out for the next part
as that will be coming up soon. So don't
forget to subscribe and hit that bell to
get notified about new videos. You can
follow me on all of the socials which
are linked below to stay up to date and
also join my growing community on
Discord to meet many like-minded gamers
to continue the conversation with. I'd
like to give a special shout out to my
Patreon supporters, Rhino, Skilgrim,
Shuen, Richard, Amy, Daniel, Dio, Omar,
Strider, Pierre, Carl, Awesome Jacket,
Dude, Maximus, Scott, Alfred, Terry,
Ryan, Alex, Gamecube, Galaxy, Cur,
Salery Man, Fake, and Patty J for their
continued support that helps make these
videos possible. If you're interested in
joining the Discord or supporting the
channel through Patreon, you'll find all
of these links down below. As always,
thanks for taking the time to check the
video out. I'll catch you next time.
[Music]